There is, however, another institution which is the natural sequel to this, and would be excellent, if it existed anywhere, but at present it does not. The oaths of a stranger against a stranger may be allowed, because strangers are not permitted to become permanent residents in our state.
Such a sadness was the natural effect of declining years and failing powers, which make men ask, After all, what profit is there in life! To what are you referring.
BOOK XI. The legislator who puts them in another order is doing an unholy and unpatriotic thing. They are to be treated with perfect justice but, for their own sake, to be kept at a distance!
And in all great changes for good and evil which are produced either by the will of the soul or the influence of others, there is a change of place. Are you speaking of the soul. A kinsman of the offender shall not be allowed to judge the cause, not even if he be of the age which is prescribed by the law? Am I not right.
They partake both of an Athenian and a Spartan character. Certainly. Proceed. Enough of education.
Yes the chiefest. And ought not the legislator to determine these classes. Shall we, then, take this as the next point to which our attention should be directed.
What do you mean! Knowledge is valued by him only as it tends to the attainment of wealth.
The eldest judge is to ask his questions first, and then the second, and then the third. But these are stories which I would rather not repeat. A point arising out of our previous discussion, which comes into my mind in some mysterious way!
In all outrages and acts of violence, the elder is to be more regarded than the younger. Do you remember the image in which I likened the men for whom laws are now made to slaves who are doctored by slaves. And now, who is to have the superintendence of the country, and what shall be the arrangement. Certainly not that would be the state of a slave.
Disputes about the voting may be raised once or twice, but, if a third time, the presiding officers shall decide. Is there any argument which will prove to us that we ought to encourage the taste for drinking instead of doing all we can to avoid it. The so-called decision of Rhadamanthus is worthy of all admiration.
Such international communication seemed to him both honourable and useful! Exactly. They will also take care that the sales which the citizens are required to make to strangers are duly executed. Many of these latter are men of ability, and are greatly to be pitied, because their souls are hungering and thirsting all their lives long.
Concerning these, we will first of all give a word of counsel and reason, and the law shall come afterwards. Their aim is to reconstruct the work of the great lawgivers of Hellas in a literary form. We, indeed, fancy that they will inherit reverence from us, if we rebuke them when they show a want of reverence. But how can we make them sing.
How shall we proceed, Stranger. But to whom are they to be taught, and when.
Any one who is good for anything will give information against traitors. And now the game opens, and we begin to move the pieces! Some of them too are derived from Crete, and are appropriately transferred to a Cretan colony?
Is this due to the ignorance of mankind and their legislators.
Next to religion, the preservation of the constitution is the first object of the law.
The affection both of the Bacchantes and of the children is an emotion of fear, which springs out of an evil habit of the soul. There is also, as in the Republic, a Pythagorean element! Many have thought the Laws to be one of the greatest of Platonic writings, while in the judgment of Mr! Very good.
These things are to be decided on by the twelve guardians of the law who are next in seniority to the five elders. The latter go about the country or wait for the slaves at the dispensaries. To appreciate this latent quality would require a kindred mind, and minute study and observation.
One. Two. Three. Four! Five. Six. Seven. Eight! Nine? Ten?
What do you mean.
The compensation for the injury, whether to be twofold or threefold or fourfold, shall be fixed by the judges who convict him. But if you do not agree with me, there is no reason why you should not argue on the other side. You are aware that there are these two classes of doctors.
It will be said that our city is a mere image of wax. What penalty! And yet, where there is a tyranny, you might certainly see that of which I am now speaking.
Proceed! And he who is an inhabitant of the same place and is present shall come to the rescue, or he shall fall under a curse. The violence of war and the hard necessity of poverty are constantly overturning governments and changing laws. Nor, indeed is it easy to reconcile his various accounts of them!
And have not thousands and thousands of cities come into being during this period and as many perished. Then now we seem to have stumbled upon the beginnings of legislation.
Magistrates who are wide awake at night are terrible to the bad but they are honoured by the good, and are useful to themselves and the state. Exactly. Your opinion, Stranger, about the questions which are now being raised, is precisely what we want to hear? During this period, and for some time afterwards, all the arts which require iron and brass and the like would disappear.
How can there be anything greater! What will be our first law.
There is one particular which they must determine in all cases - the question of fact. In another passage he says that life is a game of which God, who is the player, shifts the pieces so as to procure the victory of good on the whole.
In marriage, his object is still to produce the finest children for the state. It was not quick to move or easily excited but stolid, cautious, unambitious, procrastinating. Certainly.
And what would you say about the body, my friend.
Then I, or any other Lacedaemonian, would reply that hunting is third in order. But this licence cannot be allowed to the lawgiver? Clearly. If this were better understood, the crime of murder, of which avarice is the chief cause, would soon cease among men?
A slave who eats of the storing grapes or figs shall be beaten, and the freeman be dismissed with a warning. There is to be no retail trade either in these or any other articles.
Of course. And if the soul is prior to the body, then the things of the soul are prior to the things of the body.
All sacrifices, and altars, and temples, whatever may be their origin, should remain as they are.
How can they. Is not justice noble, which has been the civiliser of humanity. For equity and indulgence are infractions of the perfect and strict rule of justice.
Wood and stone of a single piece may be offered also woven work which has not occupied one woman more than a month in making. But are sure that it must be vast and incalculable. To this council the Spectator, who is sent to visit foreign countries, has to make his report. But how and in what way these are to be attained, will have to be considered attentively, or we may be entangled in error.
In his return to earth Plato meets with a difficulty which has long ceased to be a difficulty to us? Speaking generally, our glory is to follow the better and improve the inferior, which is susceptible of improvement, as far as this is possible.
Ought I to answer first, since I am the elder. Try and explain the nature of it to us as clearly as you can.
A few inscriptions! He who makes war his object instead of peace, or who pursues war except for the sake of peace, is not a true statesman.
Who are those who compose the third choir, Stranger? I would beg of you to be patient, and learn the truth of the legislator and others in the mean time abstain from impiety. In the elections to the priesthood, Plato endeavours to mix or balance in a friendly manner demus and not demus.
I think that you must understand my meaning. How does that bear upon any of the matters of which we have been speaking. For they must watch over the districts assigned to them, and also act as judges.